---
layout: post
title:  "CocktailJS"
description: "Traits, talents & NodeJS"
category: projects
tags: [nodejs]
slug: /projects/cocktail.html
comments: true
---

**CocktailJS** is a NodeJS module to explore concepts such as *Annotations*, *Traits*, and *Talents* aiming to improve code reuse and organization.

There are several ways to reuse code. In general, most developers tend to *abuse* the classical inheritance and grouping common behavior in parent classes. This often leads into a very deep inheritance tree and, usually, to have many *Abstract\** or *\*Base* class names.

## We can do better

There are several articles describing the benefits of using Mixins. A mixin can be seen as a mechanism to implement multiple inheritance (hence, they have the same issues as other languages that support multiple inheritance). A couple years ago, the concept of *Functional Mixins* arose. The idea, is to **share behavior** across classes or data types - I believe is a better name - solving the problem of who is responsible to initialize the mixin properties by just avoiding them. But, we still have the problem of multiple methods definition. When you apply a mixin that contains a method `foo`, and the class also contains another `foo` method, there is no clear rule about which one will be in the result. 


## The Trait approach

By definition, a **Trait** cannot contain state, this means that only behavior (methods) can be defined in a trait. An interesting aspect is that in case of a method name collision there is no magic rule or precedence and it is a developer responsibility to solve that scenario in code. 

### Solving name collisions

There are not one but two ways to solve name collisions with Traits. One is to **exclude** the method definition from a given trait. Another mechanism is to create an **alias** for the method in case you want to use it later in your class definition.

## Give it a try

If you find yourself interested in this kind of topics, read more about Traits in [this paper](http://scg.unibe.ch/archive/papers/Scha03aTraits.pdf). Also you might find that Talents are very useful too. Read more about [talents here](http://scg.unibe.ch/archive/papers/Ress11a-Talents.pdf).

CocktailJS is available to download from npm:

```
$ npm install cocktail
```

For more information, visit the [CocktailJS site](http://cocktailjs.github.io) and [repository](https://github.com/CocktailJS/cocktail).

Happy Coding!